README.md, before:

# Project 00003

## 📖 Overview
Project 00003 is part of my SQL portfolio series.  
It demonstrates structured database design, relational queries, and workflow organization using **SQLite**.  
The goal is to make this project **easy to clone, run, and understand** for anyone reviewing my work.

---

## 🚀 Project Badges
![Last Commit](https://img.shields.io/github/last-commit/jrhcorp2023Git/Project00003)
![Repo Size](https://img.shields.io/github/repo-size/jrhcorp2023Git/Project00003)
[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-blue.svg)](LICENSE.md)
![Status](https://img.shields.io/badge/status-active-brightgreen)
![GitHub Stars](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/jrhcorp2023Git/Project00003?style=social)
![GitHub Forks](https://img.shields.io/github/forks/jrhcorp2023Git/Project00003?style=social)
![Top Language](https://img.shields.io/github/languages/top/jrhcorp2023Git/Project00003)
![GitHub Commit Activity](https://img.shields.io/github/commit-activity/m/jrhcorp2023Git/Project00003)

---

## 🚀 Getting Started

Follow these steps to set up and run the project locally:

### Prerequisites
- Install [Git](https://git-scm.com/)
- Install [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/) (or Python/Java/etc. depending on your project)
- Ensure you have a code editor like [VS Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/)

### Installation
1. Clone the repository:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/your-username/your-repo-name.git

2. Navigate into the project directory:
  cd your-repo-name
   
3. Install dependencies:
  npm install

Running the Project
- Start the development server:
  npm start

- Open your browser and go to:
  http://localhost:3000

Usage
- Modify code in the src/ folder to experiment.
- Run tests with:
  npm test
- Build for production:
  npm run build

# Navigate into the project folder
cd Project00003

# Open the SQL schema
cd sql

---

Project00003/
├── sql/        # SQL scripts (schema, inserts, queries)
├── docs/       # Documentation, ERD diagrams, notes
├── data/       # Sample datasets (CSV or other formats)
├── images/     # Screenshots or diagrams
└── README.md   # Project overview

---

## ⚙️ Setup Instructions
1. Clone the repository:

git clone https://github.com/jrhcorp2023Git/Project00003.git
cd Project00003

2. 	Open SQLite or your preferred SQL client.

3. 	Run the schema file:

sqlite3 project00003.db < sql/schema.sql

4. 	Load sample data:

sqlite3 project00003.db < sql/data_inserts.sql

5. 	Execute queries from:

sqlite3 project00003.db < sql/queries.sql

---

## 📊 Entity Relationship Diagram (ERD)
_Diagram coming soon – will illustrate table relationships visually._

---

🎯 Project Goals
• 	Practice creating normalized tables with foreign keys
• 	Write JOIN queries to validate relationships
• 	Document workflow for repeatability
• 	Prepare portfolio-ready projects for GitHub

---

✅ Status
• 	[x] Project folder initialized
• 	[ ] Schema design in progress
• 	[ ] ERD diagram to be added
• 	[ ] Queries and documentation to be finalized

---

📌 Notes
This project follows a repeatable workflow for SQL projects:
• 	Organized folder structure
• 	Clear documentation
• 	Git version control
- Portfolio-ready presentation

---

## Features
- Relational SQL schema with validated joins
- Clear documentation and usage examples
- Easy setup with step-by-step instructions

---

## Tech Stack
- SQL (PostgreSQL/MySQL)
- Python for data handling
- GitHub for version control

---

## Contributing
Contributions are welcome!  
1. Fork the repo  
2. Create your feature branch (`git checkout -b feature/AmazingFeature`)  
3. Commit changes (`git commit -m 'Add some AmazingFeature'`)  
4. Push to branch (`git push origin feature/AmazingFeature`)  
5. Open a Pull Request  

---

## Roadmap
- [ ] Add more complex SQL queries  
- [ ] Expand documentation with diagrams  
- [ ] Create automated tests  

---

## Acknowledgments
- Inspiration from [SQL tutorials]  
- Thanks to open-source contributors  

---

## Usage Examples
sqlite> .read "C:/Users/jrhma/OneDrive/Documents/sqlite/Project00003/sql/queries.sql"

📊 Query 1: Total Purchase Amount per Customer

-- Total purchase amount per customer
SELECT customer_name, SUM(amount) FROM purchases GROUP BY customer_name;

### Total Purchase Amount per Customer
| Customer       | Total Amount |
|----------------|--------------|
| Alice Johnson  | 339.99       |
| Bob Smith      | 325.50       |
| Carol Davis    | 300.00       |
| Eva Brown      | 150.00       |
| David Miller   | 45.75        |

📊 Query 2: Number of Transactions per Customer

-- Number of transactions per customer
SELECT first_name, last_name, COUNT(*) FROM purchases GROUP BY first_name, last_name;

### Number of Transactions per Customer
| First Name | Last Name | Transaction Count |
|------------|-----------|-------------------|
| Alice      | Johnson   | 2                 |
| Bob        | Smith     | 2                 |
| Carol      | Davis     | 1                 |
| David      | Miller    | 1                 |
| Eva        | Brown     | 1                 |

📊 Query 3: Discounted Totals (50% Off Demo)

-- Discounted totals (50% off for demo)
SELECT customer_name, SUM(amount) * 0.5 FROM purchases GROUP BY customer_name;

### Discounted Totals (50% Off Demo)
| Customer       | Discounted Total |
|----------------|------------------|
| Alice Johnson  | 169.995          |
| Bob Smith      | 162.75           |
| Carol Davis    | 300.00           |
| Eva Brown      | 150.00           |
| David Miller   | 45.75            |

---

These blocks are ready to paste into your README. GitHub will render them as neat tables, making your queries and outputs easy to follow.
👉 Do you want me to also add a short SQL snippet above each table so recruiters can see the query that produced the result? That often makes the demo feel more complete.

---

## Contact
Created by [John](https://github.com/yourusername) – feel free to reach out!

---

This version is **clean, recruiter-ready, and technically precise**. It shows off your workflow clarity and SQL focus while leaving room for future enhancements like the ERD diagram.  

👉 Would you like me to help you **generate a simple ERD diagram** for your schema now, so you can drop it straight into the `docs/` folder and reference it in the README?

Commit message:

Enhance README with SQL query explanations
Added explanations for SQL queries to enhance understanding.

README.md, after:

# Project 00003

## 📖 Overview
Project 00003 is part of my SQL portfolio series.  
It demonstrates structured database design, relational queries, and workflow organization using **SQLite**.  
The goal is to make this project **easy to clone, run, and understand** for anyone reviewing my work.

---

## 🚀 Project Badges
![Last Commit](https://img.shields.io/github/last-commit/jrhcorp2023Git/Project00003)
![Repo Size](https://img.shields.io/github/repo-size/jrhcorp2023Git/Project00003)
[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-blue.svg)](LICENSE.md)
![Status](https://img.shields.io/badge/status-active-brightgreen)
![GitHub Stars](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/jrhcorp2023Git/Project00003?style=social)
![GitHub Forks](https://img.shields.io/github/forks/jrhcorp2023Git/Project00003?style=social)
![Top Language](https://img.shields.io/github/languages/top/jrhcorp2023Git/Project00003)
![GitHub Commit Activity](https://img.shields.io/github/commit-activity/m/jrhcorp2023Git/Project00003)

---

## 🚀 Getting Started

Follow these steps to set up and run the project locally:

### Prerequisites
- Install [Git](https://git-scm.com/)
- Install [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/) (or Python/Java/etc. depending on your project)
- Ensure you have a code editor like [VS Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/)

### Installation
1. Clone the repository:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/your-username/your-repo-name.git

2. Navigate into the project directory:
  cd your-repo-name
   
3. Install dependencies:
  npm install

Running the Project
- Start the development server:
  npm start

- Open your browser and go to:
  http://localhost:3000

Usage
- Modify code in the src/ folder to experiment.
- Run tests with:
  npm test
- Build for production:
  npm run build

# Navigate into the project folder
cd Project00003

# Open the SQL schema
cd sql

---

Project00003/
├── sql/        # SQL scripts (schema, inserts, queries)
├── docs/       # Documentation, ERD diagrams, notes
├── data/       # Sample datasets (CSV or other formats)
├── images/     # Screenshots or diagrams
└── README.md   # Project overview

---

## ⚙️ Setup Instructions
1. Clone the repository:

git clone https://github.com/jrhcorp2023Git/Project00003.git
cd Project00003

2. 	Open SQLite or your preferred SQL client.

3. 	Run the schema file:

sqlite3 project00003.db < sql/schema.sql

4. 	Load sample data:

sqlite3 project00003.db < sql/data_inserts.sql

5. 	Execute queries from:

sqlite3 project00003.db < sql/queries.sql

---

## 📊 Entity Relationship Diagram (ERD)
_Diagram coming soon – will illustrate table relationships visually._

---

🎯 Project Goals
• 	Practice creating normalized tables with foreign keys
• 	Write JOIN queries to validate relationships
• 	Document workflow for repeatability
• 	Prepare portfolio-ready projects for GitHub

---

✅ Status
• 	[x] Project folder initialized
• 	[ ] Schema design in progress
• 	[ ] ERD diagram to be added
• 	[ ] Queries and documentation to be finalized

---

📌 Notes
This project follows a repeatable workflow for SQL projects:
• 	Organized folder structure
• 	Clear documentation
• 	Git version control
- Portfolio-ready presentation

---

## Features
- Relational SQL schema with validated joins
- Clear documentation and usage examples
- Easy setup with step-by-step instructions

---

## Tech Stack
- SQL (PostgreSQL/MySQL)
- Python for data handling
- GitHub for version control

---

## Contributing
Contributions are welcome!  
1. Fork the repo  
2. Create your feature branch (`git checkout -b feature/AmazingFeature`)  
3. Commit changes (`git commit -m 'Add some AmazingFeature'`)  
4. Push to branch (`git push origin feature/AmazingFeature`)  
5. Open a Pull Request  

---

## Roadmap
- [ ] Add more complex SQL queries  
- [ ] Expand documentation with diagrams  
- [ ] Create automated tests  

---

## Acknowledgments
- Inspiration from [SQL tutorials]  
- Thanks to open-source contributors  

---

## Usage Examples
sqlite> .read "C:/Users/jrhma/OneDrive/Documents/sqlite/Project00003/sql/queries.sql"

📊 Query 1: Total Purchase Amount per Customer

-- Total purchase amount per customer
SELECT customer_name, SUM(amount) FROM purchases GROUP BY customer_name;

### Total Purchase Amount per Customer
| Customer       | Total Amount |
|----------------|--------------|
| Alice Johnson  | 339.99       |
| Bob Smith      | 325.50       |
| Carol Davis    | 300.00       |
| Eva Brown      | 150.00       |
| David Miller   | 45.75        |

Explanation:
This query calculates the total purchase amount for each customer by summing all their transactions. It demonstrates the use of the SUM() function with GROUP BY to aggregate financial data, a common task in reporting and analytics. Recruiters will recognize this as a practical example of turning raw transaction records into meaningful business insights.

📊 Query 2: Number of Transactions per Customer

-- Number of transactions per customer
SELECT first_name, last_name, COUNT(*) FROM purchases GROUP BY first_name, last_name;

### Number of Transactions per Customer
| First Name | Last Name | Transaction Count |
|------------|-----------|-------------------|
| Alice      | Johnson   | 2                 |
| Bob        | Smith     | 2                 |
| Carol      | Davis     | 1                 |
| David      | Miller    | 1                 |
| Eva        | Brown     | 1                 |

Explanation:
This query counts how many transactions each customer has made. It demonstrates grouping by individual names and applying the  function to show customer activity levels.

📊 Query 3: Discounted Totals (50% Off Demo)

-- Discounted totals (50% off for demo)
SELECT customer_name, SUM(amount) * 0.5 FROM purchases GROUP BY customer_name;

### Discounted Totals (50% Off Demo)
| Customer       | Discounted Total |
|----------------|------------------|
| Alice Johnson  | 169.995          |
| Bob Smith      | 162.75           |
| Carol Davis    | 300.00           |
| Eva Brown      | 150.00           |
| David Miller   | 45.75            |

Explanation:
This query applies a 50% discount to each customer’s total purchase amount. It demonstrates how SQL can be used for simple business logic calculations, such as promotions or pricing scenarios.

---

These blocks are ready to paste into your README. GitHub will render them as neat tables, making your queries and outputs easy to follow.
👉 Do you want me to also add a short SQL snippet above each table so recruiters can see the query that produced the result? That often makes the demo feel more complete.

---

## Contact
Created by [John](https://github.com/yourusername) – feel free to reach out!

---

This version is **clean, recruiter-ready, and technically precise**. It shows off your workflow clarity and SQL focus while leaving room for future enhancements like the ERD diagram.  

👉 Would you like me to help you **generate a simple ERD diagram** for your schema now, so you can drop it straight into the `docs/` folder and reference it in the README?
